In this video, I'll introduce you to a tool named Infura.
I'll talk a little bit about why you would use this tool,
what the alternatives are,
and how it works with your development environment.
As you can see, Infura pitches themselves as your access to the Ethereum Network.
It's an API instead of developer tools that provide secure,
reliable, and scalable access to Ethereum and IPFS.
This isn't related yet but you might not have seen the term IPFS yet.
That'll come up a little later.
As a quick overview, where Ethereum can decentralize the computation across a network,
IPFS can decentralize the storage.
We'll get to this later in the program,
but you can look this up more on your own if you like.
This comes from the type of ideas we learned earlier with Bitcoin that
Blockchains are actually a terrible place to store things.
Things like IPFS have come along to make
decentralizing storage a more viable option than to put it directly on the Blockchain.
So anyway, back to Infura.
So to start, why would you need Infura at all?
Well, once you can make API calls to the Ethereum Blockchain,
you still need to make the connection that allows those calls to go through.
To do that, you'll need to have access to a Blockchain.
One way to do this, is to install your own local node using a tool such as Geth.
Doing this downloads an entire copy of the Blockchain to your local environment.
Once you have the data downloaded,
it's yours to access from your development environment.
No inferior needed.
The issue with this approach is,
that you need to have the storage available to download
the entire Blockchain or at least a test Blockchain to your local computer.
From there, you need to keep it sync and it will
continue to eat up storage as the Blockchain grows.
Currently sitting at over 6.5 million blocks and many, many,
many gigabytes of data,
this just isn't feasible for a lot of situations.
So, that's where Infura comes in.
Rather than downloading a node and having direct access to it locally,
Infura provides a way for you to connect to nodes remotely.
To make this happen, they set up endpoint URLs,
that when provided as the connection to Web three,
give you access to call the network
specified similar to how you would do in your own local node.
So, at this point, you would have access to
a full node without having to download it on your own computer.
A potential downside to this is that you do need an internet connection for this to work,
but given the alternative I see this as a much simpler way to get started.
Even large applications including CryptoKitties and MetaMask like you've seen earlier,
use this tool to access the Ethereum network.
So, it's not even that you're using a tool that isn't extremely powerful.
From what I've seen so far, if anything,
it allows your application to scale and support
their user base much better than if you were to use a local node.
I'm sure that's up for debate and I know there are pros and cons to each approach,
but Infura is my personal preference.
So by going through the details of why you might want to use it,
I may have clouded up the details of how to use it a little bit.
Before wrapping up, I wanted to quickly go over
how it will work to connect to the main network.
We'll be doing all of this in the video below.
First, you set up an Infura account and get the main network and point they provide.
Then, from your terminal you connect to Web three.
Finally, within Web three you set up a connection to the URL endpoint, Infura provided.
It's one line of code and you're all set.
From there, you'll make a Web three call,
that call will use the Infura connection to reach a remote a theory of
node and that Ethereum node will return the Blockchain data you're requesting.
That's it, full access to the entire Ethereum Blockchain.
Okay, so hopefully now you understand how Infura works,
why you'd want to use it,
and are excited to get started for yourself.
Coming up, you'll set up an account with Infura,
connect your environment, and get access to the Ethereum Blockchain using Web three.